So, your exercise is to go to the disc
page and try to do what we just did.
Which is essentially migrate everything
that you see inside of the options, so
that means data, computed, methods, and
mounted, and practice moving that all over
into composition API Okay,
first things first,
we're gonna go ahead and what we need for
the composition API is a setup method.
That is a life cycle hook that
will hold everything in here.
So let's go ahead and just,
I'm gonna copy all this over so
let's migrate data first, so
inside of here paste that over, so
we have a const, oops, that was a typo
constants are text and this is a ref.
So again,
I'm gonna import that automatically.
So, if you'll notice that in the
autocomplete if your VS code is hopefully
working the way I hope it does,
you'll notice that ref should show up and
if you select a package I'll
show that one more time.
If you just select the top one,
it's just gonna do some random thing.
But you'll notice that ref here it'll
actually say that it's from the,
you see that little package thing from
view, that's how you know it's from view,
that's why it's really important hang on,
let me go back.
I do on my show that get that screengrab.
So again if I go ref, you'll see that on
the right hand side there's that it tells
you where it's coming from and that's how
you know you want to import it from you.
So that's how I'm doing that, so when I
hit that it'll automatically augment my
import up here, so just know that's
all the magic that's happening.
All right, ref of string.
We're good at cons dishlist is
going to be a ref of dish array.
And then we just need to
pass that in as an argument.
So wrap that in parentheses,
and we're golden.
The why is this data looks better.
And then const showNewForm is a ref.
That is a Boolean, but we're gonna
let that automatically in first.
So as you'll see that we don't
need to define this here.
We don't need to be like Boolean.
And we don't need to be like string
because it's being assumed that
that will be the case for both.
All right, then let's go ahead and
just start our return object because
we wanna actually expose all these.
So filterText showNew Form and
dishlist, great.
Now we can delete this data,
data shape up here at the top.
All right, let's keep the journey going,
we have two things that are computed.
So we're gonna jump in here.
Once again, this is a constant filter
dish and what kind of variable is it?
It is a computed variable.
So once again,
you'll see the view right here, hit that.
And you'll see that imports here
computed right at the top and
even alphabetically organizes it,
which is great, right?
So bump, bump, thumb, there we go.
We'll, deal with that this is in a second.
So then here = computed.
And then we just need to turn
this into an arrow function.
And actually small aside, that's
actually one of the nice things about
the composition API is
that arrow functions and
options API would break
this reference sometimes.
So you actually couldn't use arrow
function within options API when
defining things.
So it's a nice thing to get
back to you if you enjoy that
kind of shorter syntax list.
All right, so now we just need to grab
anything that has this because we know
that we're using refs for
all of it basically.
And then we just need to delete it and
then replace it with .value because
we need to unpackage our references.
So there we go.
That's good to go now and so
now we can say filteredDishList.
And then we have our number of dishes.
Great, finally we're almost there,
we're just gonna actually
let us grab all this and
just move it on endless
grab the methods and
then 123 const = jump ahead at the arrows.
This is great, wait,
I messed up too far there.
Yeah, jump here.
Then we go one, two, three =,
then jump to the end than that and
then we're good to go for
the most part just have these commas
to deal with for all this stuff
we can just do this too much.
One, two, three, four.
I'm using command d for me.
This is how you select multiple
things on your cursor and
then from there 1, 2, 3, 4 .value.
Save let's good addDish deleteDish.
And hide form for
the sake of being alphabetical and
finally, we have our own mounted here.
And so we have on touch on mounted and
you can see here it's now autocompleting
with view so I can hit Enter.
And once again it will automatically
import that directly from view.
And then we just need to pass it in the
callback function that will run every time
it hits that lifecycle hook.
But we don't have this so what do we need?
We need use route and we'll import
that from use router and boom,
again the auto complete is one of the best
things about script to be totally honest,
even if you're not annotating everything.
Cause that's one of the benefits of using
TypeScript is that, anyone who's like
the library authors who went through
the effort of documenting all that,
you just get that for free.
And so that's another, to be honest,
another reason why I like to recommend
just starting out using Type script,
even if you're not actually
applying it everywhere.
Okay, on mounted, that's good.
And I think that's everything.
So, I had you all do that exercise for
a reason is that,
some of you probably were thinking,
even as I was typing, you're like,
wow, that's a lot of boiler plate,
particularly [LAUGH] this thing down.
What I'm happy to tell you is that,
there is a better way of doing this,
which again,
I wanted to show you just a full pass, so
you know where all this is coming from.
We'll be showing you sort of the more
common way you'll see composition API use
going forward, and then from there we'll
continue building on our knowledge, for
using view and typescript.